# SYNTHETIC-INFANT-HEALTH-CLASSIFICATION
DATA SCIENCE AND MACHINE LEARNING PROJECT

The Synthetic Infant Health Classification dataset is used in the medical field to predict outcomes using generated data rather than private data. It is also referred to as mimic data. Medical data is often kept confidential, which can hinder IT innovations in the industry. Therefore, mimic data is designed to make predictions and data analysis, which helps to prevent privacy breaches. Developing mimic data also helps organizations to broaden the use of the data, increasing the number of users and contributors who can analyze the data. Most datasets containing health information are not readily available for use because they contain confidential information about individuals. Identifiable records can’t also be easily shared as organizations need to comply with certain regulations. Researchers and analysts continue to face many barriers when accessing essential datasets. Therefore, synthetic datasets are preferred over any official dataset. Infants aged 0-30 days have extremely sensitive health because of this another barrier gets created for their health data analysis and study. However, it is extremely important to analyze their health issues and prepare good models that will help in the early diagnosis of diseases in infants. Early diagnosis of these diseases will not only help doctors but also many industries on these lines. Machine Learning and Data Science have very wide applications one of which is this. Due to the advantages of Machine Learning and Data Science, the process of diagnosis speeds up and helps doctors to take precautions accordingly. In this article, I am using my knowledge of Machine Learning and  Data Science to predict the sickness of babies. I am utilizing Python libraries such as Seaborn, Pandas, Numpy, and Sklearn to comprehend the data. For my Data Science and Machine learning project along with these libraries, I have used the Random Forest algorithm and K nearest Neighbor algorithm to predict the sickness of the infant babies. The data provided in the dataset is used to train the model.


